# AMR-TV

AMR-TV allows users to examine AMR gene overlap from a network of sampled 
bacterial pathogens derived from the [NCBI Isolates Browser][1], over a 
specified date range. 

[1]: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pathogens/isolates/

## Implementation Overview

Using a Docker, Django, and Postgres boilerplate setup with some personal 
modifications, I built several Django apps located in `amr_tv/`: `isolate`, 
`transmission_events`, `adjacency_matrix`, `node_link_diagram`, and 
`node-detail-table`. In addition to building these applications, I also wrote the JavaScript code that ties a lot of these applications together. 

**isolate**

`isolate` stores the data from the NCBI Isolates Browser. All I did was write a 
model with fields that map to NCBI Isolates Browser's column headers, and then 
populated the resulting table in Postgres with the mapped data.

**transmission_events**

I wrote a SQL query that:
1. Parses an inputted date range
2. Aggregates the rows from `isolate` as required when deriving nodes
3. Returns a list of every link between derived nodes

**adjacency_matrix**

I wrote code that iterates over the data from `transmission_events` to 
calculate the values needed for each cell of the adjacency matrix. The actual 
rendering was done by Plotly's heatmap architecture, which took my calculated 
data as an argument.

I wrote code allowing users to click and highlight cells in the Plotly 
figure. This functionality was not native to Plotly, but I implemented it by:

1. Determining the x, y coordinates of the user's click event
2. Using Plotly's `add_shape` function to overlay transparent and yellow 
squares at the appropriate location

**node_link_diagram**

I wrote code that:

1. Uses the organism groups mapped to the selected cells of the adjacency 
matrix to filter the data from `transmission_events`.
2. Uses the filtered data from `transmission_events` to produce nodes and edges 
in the format required by NetworkX

I used NetworkX's force directed algorithms algorithms to provide coordinates 
to each node, and then used Plotly's scatterplot architecture to draw these 
nodes in a diagram at their respective positions. I then used Plotly's 
annotation function to draw arrows between nodes.

**node_detail_table**

I used Django Querysets and `isolates` to retrieve the NCBI Isolates Browser 
rows corresponding to click events in the node-link diagram, which I rendered 
using Plotly's table architecture.

<br />

In addition to building these above applications, I also wrote some functional code in `amr-tv/static/base.js` responsible for:

1. Displaying the rendered plots in the browser
2. Providing some of the interactivity
3. Ensuring diagrams appear in the correct order

## Installation

`$ docker-compose build --force-rm`

`$ docker-compose run django python manage.py makemigrations`

`$ docker-compose run django python manage.py migrate`

`$ docker-compose exec -T --user postgres postgres pg_restore --clean --dbname amr-tv < db.dump`

`$ docker-compose up --detach`

## Usage

Visit http://0.0.0.0:8000/ to use the application.

## Acknowledgements

Dockerized Django + Postgres setup inspired by [Cookiecutter Django][2]

Node-Link diagram structure generated by [NetworkX][3]

Figures drawn using [Plotly][4]


[2]: https://github.com/pydanny/cookiecutter-django
[3]: https://networkx.org/
[4]: https://plotly.com/python/

## License

[MIT][3]

[5]: LICENSE.md
